Code bachelor's thesis, computer science
========================================

This GAP code is intended to work with the `NumericalSgps`  GAP package. There are three main parts to this code.

Ideals
------

We give two methods for ideal decomposition.

- *IdealDecomposition(I)* gives the decomposition the relative Ideal, I, into Z-irreducible ideals.

- *ProperIdealDecomposition(I)* gives the decomposition the proper Ideal, I, into proper irreducible ideals.

Characterization
----------------

The first part is focused in alternative characterizations of numerical semigroups, based on
nu, tau and oplus.

- *Nu(S,i)* computes the i-th value of the Nu-sequence, and *NuSequence(S)* computes the Nu-Sequence of the semigroup S, up to Nu_2*c-g (from that point onwards, it increases 1 by 1)

- *SemigroupFromNu(Nu)* computes the numerical semigroup with nu sequence nu, assuming Nu contains enough elements to determine the semigroup.

- *TauSemigroup(S,i)* computes the i-th value of the Tau-sequence, and *TauSequence(S)* computes the Nu-Sequence of the semigroup S, up to Nu_2*c-g (from that point onwards, it increases by 1 every two elements)

- *TauSequence(S)* Computes the TauSequence of the semigrup S, up to 2c-g+1. For numbers greater than that, it increases 1 by 1, every 2, Tau_{2c-g+1}=Tau_{2c-g+2}.

- *SemigroupFromTau(Tau)* computes the numerical semigroup with tau sequence Tau, assuming Tau contains enough elements to determine the semigroup.

- *Oplus(i,j,S)* computes the operation oplus for indexes i and j in the semigroup S. Returns k=i oplus j.

- *SemigroupFromOplus(O)* computes the semigroup, using the Oplus operation, given as a list of triplets. For testing, there is a createO function in the `Test` folder that can generate this sequence from a list of tuples. In the same way, *NuFromOplus* computes the nu sequence, given the oplus operation as triplets.

Feng Rao distance
-----------------

The third part focuses on the computation of Feng-Rao distances, for special cases.

- *FengRaoDistance2(s,r,m)* Computes the r-th Feng-Rao distance, for element m in semigrup s. It is based on the default function, *FengRaoDistance*, implemented in the package `NumericalSgps`. It incorporates all the functions that are listed below.

- *FengRaoDistanceArf(S,m)* Computes the 1-st Feng-Rao distance of S, an Arf numerical Semigroup.

- *FengRaoDistance2(S,m)* Computes the second Feng-Rao distance of m<2c-1, m in S, an Arf numerical Semigroup.

- *FengRaoDistanceBruteForce(S,m)* Comptes the first Feng-Rao distance of S, in a non recursive way.

- *FengRaoDistanceOrdinary2(S,m)* Computes the second Feng-Rao distance of c<m<2c-1, in the semigrup S, an ordinary Semigroup.

- *FengRaoDistanceSymmetric(S,m)* Computes the first Feng-Rao Distance of a Symmetric semigrup, for m in [c+1, 2c-2]

- *FengRaoDistanceSymmetricGeneralized(S,r,m)* Computes the r-th Feng-Rao distance of m, in a Symmetric semigroup, S, for m in [c+1, 2c-2], if m-2*g+1 in s.

- *FengRaoDistanceTwoGenerators(S,m)* Computes the first Feng-Rao distance of m<2c-1, an element of S, a semigroup generated by 2 elements. 
